---
date: 2024-05-24
draft: false
---

### `bin/web`

- [x] Implement error coloration for endpoints.

- This ended up being an adventure to clean up the CSS, properly scoping styles and applying some basic variable support.

- [This article from MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Nesting_selector) has a great overview of how selectors work and how to write nesting properly.

- [This article](https://piccalil.li/blog/add-inline-svg-directly-in-your-css/) has some interesting ideas on how to embed icons directly in CSS, instead of rendering them as markup. Kinda like that, honestly.

    - I've implemented this for all the icons, and removed the dependency on `gomponents-heroicons`. [This site](https://iconer.app/heroicons/) has some nice tools for copying the `base64` data URLs for this technique to work.

    - In the process of doing this, I've learned how to get the damn icons to vertically align with the text in, say, an `infobox`. Turns out, you need to apply the `vertical-align: middle` to the IMAGE (or other block element), instead of the text or container element like I was assuming. Don't know why I didn't try that.

    - Still need to figure out how to colorize the SVG icons when they are being used like this, but that's a minor issue and one I can figure out later.

- [x] Figure out how to deal with the endpoint tabs being too long.

- This ended up being the `style` attribute I was adding- since it restricted the height of the element to `24px`, it would not reflow content correctly if the number of tabs exceeded the screen width. Removing the `style` makes this do The Right Thing™️.

- [x] Figure out why cert checks seem to be duplicated according to the number of checks.

- OK, this is about what I expected. Since we're executing the same check multiple times per cert in a scan with multiple endpoints, it records multiple results. I ended up solving this by only selecting the first check for each one:

```sql
SELECT id, title, pass FROM (
        SELECT id, title, pass, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY title) rn
        FROM data_scan_checks WHERE scan_id = $1 AND cert_id = $2
    ) a WHERE rn = 1;
```

A longer-term fix would also be to de-duplicate check results as they are inserted into the database, but I've done this on the display end to make sure it always happens.

### `lib/tls/basic`

- [x] Fix the incorrect parsing of ciphersuite hex bytes.

- This ended up being that I was representing them wrong in my `struct` definitions, creating an extra layer of `struct` where there didn't need to be one. The working definition looks like this:

```go
type embeddedData struct {
    Ciphersuites []map[string]cipherInfo `json:"ciphersuites"`
}
```

- **Aside:** I'm very impressed with how FAST the ciphersuite determination is- for a basic scan of `he.net` I can complete the two endpoints for it in less than a second, with the time for all other checks included. Beat that, SSLabs!

### `lib/data`

- [x] Properly mark scans as done when all tasks are finished.

- Need to find something like a `sql.NullDuration` type? I wonder if `pgx` has one.

    - [Looks like using a pointer to a pointer works for `pgx`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jackc/pgx/v5@v5.5.5/pgtype#hdr-Null_Values).

### `bin/worker/task`

- Fixed a small bug where if TLS 1.0 or 1.1 were not supported, the check would exit with no output.

- Added a link to [ciphersuite.info](https://ciphersuite.info) to the "Insecure TLS 1.2 Ciphers" check so people know where we get our information from.