---
date: 2024-05-22
draft: false
---

### `pleasings/bin/push`

- [x] Figure out why `pleasings/lib/ensure.Directory` isn't creating the necessary paths for files.

- At least, I assume this is why I'm getting a `file does not exist` error when trying to upload.

- **This ended up being a mixup of parameter names when I copy-pasted the code for it. The perils of writing code late at night.**

    - Similar issues were found for `pleasings/lib/ensure.Symlink`, too. Gotta keep track of parameters!

- [x] Implement `pleasings/lib/ensure/postgres`.

- **I've decided to just do `pleasings/lib/ensure/postgres.User` for now, I will implement the others when I am less tired.**

- I've also added a `plz psql` command that immediately gets you into a database shell on the dev server.

- [x] Ensure this script works on the actual dev server.

- **I've done all my testing on the dev server just for simplicity's sake.**

### `bin/worker/task`

  - [x] Port the remaining checks from pre-refactor code.

  - [x] Add proper logging code so that errors and the like can be shown to the user for each check.

### `bin/web`

- [x] Implement the UI changes that Mike requested.

    - To keep things easy to manage, I've decided to use an embeddable SVG icons library, which implements the [Heroicons](https://heroicons.com/) set. They're basic but that's perfectly fine by me.

    - There's some additional work I want to do to clean up the UI but for now it's a good Proof of Concept.

- Turns out that passing command line arguments to Please aliases is easy enough to do- just needed to add `--` to the end of the alias line, and `$@` works as expected in things like shell scripts.