---
date: 2024-05-20
draft: false
---

- Learned that when "upserting" data in Postgres, the `ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING` clause will not return any rows when it triggers. A solution (that I've verified works) can be found [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34708509/how-to-use-returning-with-on-conflict-in-postgresql).

- Thinking about how to package the software components into something repeatable and easily-installable. [FPM-created DEB packages](https://github.com/thought-machine/pleasings/blob/master/package/fpm.build_defs) might be the answer, containing the services and their systemd files?

- Tried using [ore](https://github.com/firasdarwish/ore) as a Dependency Injection container. I like its API, but I don't think DI gels well with my more-explicit coding style. I worry a lot about spooky action at a distance.

- [x] **Refactored the `bin/web/components` functions to be more explicit about what they're operating on.**

  - Relatedly, thinking about how to package these as HTML Custom Components without involving a bunch of JS nonsense?
  - Also, how can I make it possible for components to add their own static files to the HTTP server (for things like icons, or stylesheets)?

- Thinking about whether I want to include the raw cert bytes in the database for `lib/data/cert.Cert`.

  - **Pros:** can come along later and re-parse them to draw out additional information that we missed, makes executing checks post-hoc easier.
  - **Cons:** larger data storage requirements, especially when we start implementing Certificate Transparency monitoring.
  - **At this time, I'm going to go ahead with it. We can always pare back later if we find it's too much, but I need to remember that I have a lot of resources on the production server.**

- Working on the above, I learned that `encoding/json` (and similar packages that use `reflect`) can't reach into unexported fields. That makes things a little awkward as far as hiding data, but I can be careful about what I use.

- I love Zed for many reasons- the editor ergonomics of it seem much nicer somehow- but I do find it frustrating how little extra functionality it has. Examples include: Markdown previews (with Mermaid support) and TODO highlighting. For now, I will keep using VS Code as my editor as it has those features.

- Thinking about what I want my work machine for Callisto to be- might be worth it to pick up a Mac Mini and decommission my old Intel Macbook from BlockFi. I want an ARM machine, for sure, but it's difficult to find an affordable 16GB option, which I consider the minimum for development work.

- Interesting finding for Postgres queries: I needed a way to find "of all the certs located for this scan, what one doesn't have any `chain_cert_id` pointing to it?" The query that ended up working was:

  ```
  SELECT id, chain_cert_id, issuer, valid_domains FROM data_certs c WHERE NOT EXISTS (SELECT 1 FROM data_certs WHERE c.id = chain_cert_id);
  ```

  The `NOT EXISTS` part is the most important there.

- [x] **Updated the scans to properly manage and display the certs that they find.**

- For now, I'm going to keep my existing push mechanisms that I wrote with Fabric, since they allow me to do more sysadmin tasks during a push.

  - **Worth translating this small library into Go?**

- **Cross-compilation**

  - How to handle this with Please? It would be real nice to make the `push` script depend on built artifacts, to properly leverage the build system.
  
  - [Please's Docker build rules](https://github.com/please-build/docker-rules) have some interesting ideas in them- the problem I see is that they only produce the scripts that WOULD run the builds, not the artifacts themselves. Most of this is from the assumption that they are building containers- I am not.

  - It appears that Please actually has a built-in cross-compilation option- `--arch` in `plz build` works. I wonder if I can make `plz push` use this automatically.

    - Yes, this is possible- I can pass the option in the `alias` config section.

    - Also, are there potential issues from cross-compilation like this? DNS lookups, for instance?