---
date: 2024-05-21
draft: false
---

- Picked up my new work machine for Callisto last night; ended up finding an acceptable Mac Mini M1 with 16GB of RAM.

- **Working on `pleasings/bin/push` today.**

  - I'm going to translate my old Python code into Go for this- it's small enough that I should be able to get it done in a day.

  - `x/crypto/ssh` and `github.com/pkg/sftp` should be all I need for this, honestly.

  - Realizing that adding the `--arch` option to the `push` alias might not be the best idea, since I think it will also compile the Go code in `pleasings/bin/push/internal` to be `linux_amd64`... which would make it impossible to run on my Mac. Looking into how to selectively set architectures for targets.

    - It looks like this IS possible, but requires some finagling. I had to setup an `arch()` in the root-level `BUILD`, as well as set `architectures` for the `go_toolchain` to actually allow cross-compilation.

    - Once these were setup, using the `///<arch>//<target>` syntax for a build target worked.

  - [x] **Got targeted cross-compilation working without requiring nested `plz` invocations.**

  - Interesting little snippet for dealing with splitting a newline-delimited string into an array in Bash, stolen from [here](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/628527/split-string-on-newline-and-write-it-into-array-using-read):

    ```
    set -o noglob
    IFS=$'\n' paths=($PATHS)
    set +o noglob
    ```

  - I discovered an interesting bit in my Goodwater code archive- a set of `BUILD` targets that creates and pushes a Docker image. Code can be found in `@operations//common/docker`, and contains a Python 3-compatible image setup. Should be pretty easy to adapt this for use in Go projects like Callisto.

  - Still worried about DNS lookups, wondering if there are additional flags I need to add, maybe to `go_stdlib`?

  - In porting this code to Go, I'm going to drop some of the additional sysadmin work that I have coded in the original. I think the ideal workflow right now is:

    - Upload all the files into a common service account, let's call it `svc`.
    - `/home/svc/versions/{target}/{version}` will be the filename for the binary itself.
    - `/home/svc/{target}` will be symlinked to the just-uploaded binary.
    - `/home/svc/defaults` will contain the default environment variables for `systemd` to pick up.
    - Kick `systemd` to pick up the new symlinks.
    
  - We're going to just assume that the database is properly setup for access from `svc` user, and that `systemd` targets are already configured for them.
  
  - I can work on more bootstrapping stuff when I have time.

  - **Open question:** How to handle `systemd` unit files when the time comes to write those? I need to support both service and timer files (the latter for `cleanup`).

    - For now, I think it's easy enough to generate the files in `pleasings/lib/ensure` and just hardcode what I need.

    - Eventually, I'd be interested in working with something like Starlark to describe the desired state of a system and have a project that can apply those. Maybe `ensure` will grow into that.

      - Various Starlark libraries found while I sidetracked for this:

        - [Protoconf](https://www.protoconf.dev/) is still going strong! I don't think I'll ever use it directly, since it doesn't quite match how my systems are architected, but I would love to adapt its ideas into something minimal and usable.

        - [Starlib](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/gebv/starlib#section-readme) is a "standard library" for Starlark programs.

        - [Starlight](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/dlag/starlight#section-readme) implements a wrapper around Starlark to make it easier to pass data in/out.

        - [Skycfg](https://github.com/stripe/skycfg) is probably a good basis for something hand-written, as it makes it much easier to work with Protobuf messages.

        - [Sun](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/tdakkota/sun#section-readme) isn't useful on its own but it does have some good ideas on how to add built-in functions to a Starlark interpreter.

  - Need to figure out a way to get `ssh-add` automatically run? Seems very dumb that it doesn't.

  - `ensure` with overridable Starlark configs per-environments and per-host could be a very powerful tool and help me with managing the `dev` and `prod` environments.

    - Mostly ruminating on this since I'll have different machines with different roles, particularly when it comes to hosting the DB.

  - Stopping work today with `pleasings/bin/push` not quite finished. The work is mostly done, but there are some odd errors I need to track down. I've put some tasks on tomorrow's diary to remind myself.