---
date: 2024-06-03
draft: false
---

- [x] Add Nginx or some other reverse proxy to listen on the correct port.

  - This was fixed using `iptables`:

  ```shell
  $ iptables -A INPUT -i enp8s0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
  $ iptables -A INPUT -i enp8s0 -p tcp --dport 6939 -j ACCEPT
  $ iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i enp8s0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 6939
  ```

- [x] Figure out how to force the right `plz` version.

  - I've added an entry to `$PATH` for `~/.please` that will use an updated version if one exists, and that has forced the right version.

### `@panoption///bin/cleanup`

- [x] Fix the timer output so it works with `systemd`.

- [x] Delete scans older than 1 month.

- [x] Delete endpoints, domains, and certs where no scans exist.

### `@panopticon///bin/web`

- [x] Give the cert data a `min-width`.

### `@panopticon///lib/data`

- [x] Figure out why creating new domains/endpoints isn't working.

  - This was a little complicated to figure out but I ended up adding `pg_advisory_xact_lock()` to the beginning of a task so that we can serialize access to shared data structures.

- [x] Add `@panopticon///lib/instrument` tracing.

### `@panopticon///lib/instrument`

- [x] Decide on support for pre-aggregated metrics.

  - The primary issue I can see is the huge cardinality that arises from how I handle `context` tags. That being said, there's definitely a useful idea in "hey let me keep track of some count that I know is important that is not necessarily an event".

  - After some thinking, I'm going to defer on pre-aggregated metrics. There are some interesting use cases for system metrics, like CPU utilization and the like, but I don't have a concrete sense of how I want those collected/emitted at the moment. I might end up with them formatted like Heroku Postgres does, with a log line every few seconds with all of the known metrics present.

  - Either way I know I can't do the contextual tags for these - the cardinality would be WAY too high to allow in any sink I might configure.

- [x] Buffer logs inside of spans for console output?

  - I'm also going to defer on this- there are some interesting concerns with parallel tasks and log output, but I think I need more experience with those issues before I come up with a solution for it.

### `@panopticon///bin/worker/task`

- [x] Add code to handle the existing HSTS failure modes.

- [x] Instrument the worker with spans.
